Exercises
---------

Note: I cannot copy the diagrams from the book, so refer to script openBook
and open up the appropriate exercise section.

In the exercises below, if you are asked to “describe” a C-space, you should
indicate its dimension and whatever you know about its topology (e.g., using
R, S, and T , as with the examples in Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2).


Exercise 2.1 

Using the methods of Section 2.1 derive a formula, in terms of
n, for the number of degrees of freedom of a rigid body in n-dimensional space.
Indicate how many of these dof are translational and how many are rotational.
Describe the topology of the C-space (e.g., for n = 2, the topology is R 2 ⇥ S 1 ).





Exercise 2.2 

Find the number of degrees of freedom of your arm, from your
torso to your palm (just past the wrist, not including finger degrees of freedom).
Keep the center of the ball-and-socket joint of your shoulder stationary (do not
“hunch” your shoulders). Find the number of degrees of freedom in two ways:
    (a) add up the degrees of freedom at the shoulder, elbow, and wrist joints;
    (b) fix your palm flat on a table with your elbow bent and, without moving
        the center of your shoulder joint, investigate with how many degrees of
        freedom you can still move your arm.

Do your answers agree? How many constraints were placed on your arm when
you placed your palm at a fixed configuration on the table?





Exercise 2.3 

In the previous exercise, we assumed that your arm is a serial
chain. In fact, between your upper arm bone (the humerus) and the bone
complex just past your wrist (the carpal bones), your forearm has two bones,
the radius and the ulna, which are part of a closed chain. Model your arm,
from your shoulder to your palm, as a mechanism with joints and calculate the
number of degrees of freedom using Grübler’s formula. Be clear on the number
of freedoms of each joint you use in your model. Your joints may or may not be
of the standard types studied in this chapter (R, P, H, C, U, and S).






Exercise 2.4 

Assume each of your arms has n degrees of freedom. You are
driving a car, your torso is stationary relative to the car (owing to a tight
seatbelt!), and both hands are firmly grasping the wheel, so that your hands
do not move relative to the wheel. How many degrees of freedom does your
arms-plus-steering wheel system have? Explain your answer.





