My shorthand notes to remember content of this chapter:
-------------------------------------------------------

A solid robot has basic shapes (like rigid non-deformed brick like shapes, which is a big assumption). So avoiding any flexible
shapes. Like rectangular bricks. These are called Links. Obviously links don't deform, and they don't move by themselves.

Links join with each other using Joints. Because of the existence of Joints, we can have motion between links, leading to overall
motion for the Robot. There are 6 basic joints : Revolute R (rotation), Prismatic P (linear), Helical (H), Cylindrical (C), Universal (U)
and Spherical (S). A good diagram is on page 16.

Now its all math, so first, we want to understand "what" a Robot is, in terms of Links and Joints. So a Configuration of a Robot, is a spec
(specification, like a mathematical specification) of all points of a robot.  Since we will have to account for motion, and motion planning etc, 
the idea of a configuration of a robot will help answer : where is the robot (with a bag of "what"). Btw configuration is just "a" configuration, i.e.
the set of values representing the body of a robot at a given point of time. As time changes, configurations can/will change.

Thus configuration is extendible to any actual Robot, including flexible shapes. The concept of Rigid Bodies, and of first starting with 
simpler physical dimensions (like 2D, 3D etc) really simplifies the calculation/set or representation of the configuration (set of all points) of a robot. 
So now since the body is Rigid, it means points/distances are invariant with respect to each other. So there is obviously an optimized way of representing
the configuration of a robot. For example, to specify a Link in a 2D space, I may need (x, y) for position and then a theta (angle) to specify its orientation 
w.r.t axis X (of course assuming that my reference frame is relative to an origin reference frame etc).
So DOF (degrees of freedom) is that minimum Number of parameters to represent a configuration of a robot (for a given dimension). 
DOF are real number values.

Obviously also want to know the set of all configurations possible for a robot. This is called the configuration space or C-space of a robot. Mathematically 
C-space is represented as an n-dimensional space, like actually a physical object, like a torus or cylinder (the C-space) and a configuration is then a "point"
of this space. (This point of course expands into the actual value set, or the DOF values representing that particular configuration). Its like if you had to 
accumulate/add up all of the configuration "values", and if you had to see a "physical object" within the notion of a "space", then that is how you would 
"visualize" C-space (like an object), but then then that would include/increase the notion of a space, and thereby extend it from 2, 3 to n-dimensions. 

Thus C-Spaces of robots contain info about its configurations.

---------------
Definition 2.1. The configuration of a robot is a complete specification of the position of every point of the robot. The minimum number n of real-valued
coordinates needed to represent the configuration is the number of degrees of freedom (dof) of the robot. The n-dimensional space containing all possible
configurations of the robot is called the configuration space (C-space). The configuration of a robot is represented by a point in its C-space.
---------------

Note that dof should all be real values (R range) A binary value for a variable does not classify it as a dof. 

A planar rigid body's DOF in 2D space is 3 and 3D space (spacial rigid body) is 6 (x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw)

Joints introduce DOF between 2 links (2 rigid bodies) by introducing constraints in motion.a

Page 17:

Revolute R    : dof (f) =1, constraints (c) between 2 planar links = 2,   constraints (c) between 2 spacial links = 5  
Prismatic P   : dof (f) =1, constraints (c) between 2 planar links = 2,   constraints (c) between 2 spacial links = 5  
Helical H     : dof (f) =1, constraints (c) between 2 planar links = n/a, constraints (c) between 2 spacial links = 5  
Cylindrical R : dof (f) =2, constraints (c) between 2 planar links = n/a, constraints (c) between 2 spacial links = 4  
Universal U   : dof (f) =2, constraints (c) between 2 planar links = n/a, constraints (c) between 2 spacial links = 4  
Spherical S   : dof (f) =2, constraints (c) between 2 planar links = n/a, constraints (c) between 2 spacial links = 3 

 


